Publisher Referral Offer blog post (#165)
readthedocs/ethicalads.io: content/posts/publisher-referral-offer.md

Title: EthicalAds Publisher Referral Offer - July 2021
Date: July 16, 2021

> description: Details the referral offer for a new publisher on the EthicalAds network.

Reviewer: Just a note that descriptions less than ~120 characters don't get used.

```suggestion
description: We're actively looking for publishers on the EthicalAds network. As a result, we're going to sweeten the deal to get some referrals from our existing publishers.
```

tags: publisher, offer
authors: Ra Cohen
image: /images/posts/publisher-referral-offer.jpg
image_credit: <span>Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@hannahbusing?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Hannah Busing</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/s/photos/hands?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a></span>

> ## Our Offer

Reviewer 2: Feels weird to start with an H1 -> H2. I'd put at least some introductory text.

Author: I used a newsletter as the template and we don't have an intro there. I can add one though

Want to help grow EthicalAds and our privacy preserving vision for the future of advertising?
Refer a new publisher to EthicalAds and once they join the network, 

> you'll both get a onetime $50 bonus to your payouts when they earn their first payout. 

Reviewer 2: Are we giving the referee the bonus too? $100 bonus payments for a $50 payout that we keep ~$20 of feels steep. Maybe $25 each? 

Also, should we set a time limit on it (2 months after signup, which ensures reasonable traffic?)

We should probably also make this bold -- it's definitely he main point :)

Author: It feels a little silly to bold $25

Reviewer 2: Yea, not sure what the best option is. $100 feels like a lot to pay for a publisher unless they are really good. So we should either have some kind of longer-term commitment (paid out over 3-6 months) or reduce the total. @davidfischer might have thoughts here.

Reviewer: To be honest, I'd give the full $50 to the referrer. The publisher referee will get paid from the ads themselves. I wouldn't give any limit other than when they get their first payout. A payout will be at least $50 and we're essentially spending another $50 to acquire the publisher.

Author: Updated!

Reviewer 2: Yea, paying the referrer was my original thought as well. The person adding the ads is getting the ad money, so in theory doesn't need more incentive. I do think having a time-limited incentive for them to sign up (accept the offer) would be more compelling, but maybe try that in the next iteration? ("Give $25, Get $25").

## A Good Fit

> Not every publisher who applies to join the EthicalAds network is approved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not every publisher who applies to join the EthicalAds network is approved.

```

Without an extra line break before a list, it looks like this:

![Screenshot from 2021-07-14 16-18-24](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/185043/125704848-348c27be-bc92-408f-8cb6-a66671baa5ac.png)

> * We are developers ourselves and are interested in content aimed at developers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Our network is focused exclusively on developers in order to keep the content and audience well-targeted without creepy tracking.
```

* Sites ought to have more than 10k hits in a month in order to see revenue in a timely fashion. 

> * Lastly, the owner will ideally be value-aligned in our goal of a private internet for all. 

Reviewer 2: This list is a bit odd. Are these requirements? We definitely don't want `Lastly` and `First and foremost` -- we should be keeping our copy here concise and to the point.

If you know of someone who sounds like a good fit, consider sending them a message:

> ## Sample Email

Reviewer: This is more of a philosophical discussion. When I saw this on the page I thought to myself that it will probably never get used. We have 100 publishers. Nobody is going to copy/paste this. We definitely want them to tell their friends but I'm not sure the best way to convey that.

Reviewer 2: I assume this is also valid for non-publishers -- but I've found the sample scripts are often useful even if they aren't used. It gives folks a starting point (similar to political campaigns using form letters). Lowering the barrier is important I think -- and I imagine a sample tweet would probably get used more heavily.

> If you know of someone who sounds like a good fit, consider sending them the following email:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you know of someone who sounds like a good fit, consider sending them a message. 
```

Remember to change the things in [brackets]!

---

FROM: [your name]

> TO: [your friend’s name]

Reviewer 2: Should we have a tweet-sized example too? I feel like we probably need some kind of url that will autofill the referral info.

Author: I made a quick 1 liner

> SUBJECT: Advertising Network Referral

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SUBJECT: Non-Creepy Advertising Network Referral
```

Perhaps? :)  To be a bit calmer:

```suggestion
SUBJECT: Ethical Advertising Network Referral
```

> Hi,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hey [Friend],
```

To make money, I host EthicalAds on my website and I think you'd be a good fit too. 

> They're a privacy focused company bootstrapped by the people at Read the Docs. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
They're a privacy focused company who is building an open-source ad network for devs. 
```

I like that they respect the privacy of my users and don't store any user data. 
Right now they're running a promotion where if you mention me at sign-up, 

> we both get $50 on your first payout. [Check them out](https://www.ethicalads.io/publishers/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we both get $50 on your first payout. [Check them out](https://www.ethicalads.io/publishers/?ref=publisher-referral).
```

Thanks, [your name]

Thanks again for being along with us on this journey to build an ethical ad network.

> Please [email us](mailto:ads@ethicalads.io) if you have any ideas or feedback on our product or roadmap,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please [email us](mailto:ads@ethicalads.io) if you have any ideas or feedback for us,
```
